= Setup Script for RHEL-based Distros =

== Introduction ==

A setup script for Red Hat-based distros I use for my servers. Script assumes a minimal install. Compatible with 5.x and 6.x releases

Please edit the first few lines of the script to configure some options. 

== Defaults ==

* Timezone is set to GMT.
* IPV6 is disabled.
* Root email is sent to admin@(your hostname)
* SSH
** Root login is disabled
** Port is set to 9853

== External Repositories ==

The script installs and uses these repositories ''selectively''. For example, IUS is only ever used for PHP 5.4+ and MySQL 5.5+. They are all disabled (i.e., <code>enabled=0</code>) after they're installed.

* [http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL EPEL]
* [http://repoforge.org/ RepoForge]
* [http://iuscommunity.org/pages/About.html IUS]
* [http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-redhat-centos-or-fedora-linux/ MongoDB]
* [http://nginx.org/en/download.html Ngnix]
* [http://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/RPM_Installation PGDG]

== Packages Installed ==

* Languages: Python 2.7 & 3.1 or 3.3, PHP 5.4, Ruby 1.9.3, Perl 5.10
* Databases: MongoDB 2.2, MySQL 5.5
* Monitoring utilities: htop, ntop, iotop, ncdu
* Source Control: Subversion, git 
* Archival: zip, rar, pbzip 
* Security: rkhunter, AIDE, bcrypt, scrypt, Suhosin
* Miscellaneous: ack, byobu, tree, mlocate, vim, yum-utils, rsync 3, vsftpd
* Development libraries and tools
* The Apache and Nginx web servers

== SELinux ==

Disabled for now. I'm sure it's awesome. [https://github.com/nmoureyii/centos-setup This project] seems like a good starting point.

== Services ==

SSH, VsFTPd, NTPD, Apache, and MySQL are installed and started. 

=== NTP ===

* A few servers [http://infohost.nmt.edu/~armiller/timeserv.htm off this page] are used. 

=== SSH ===

* SSH port is set to *9853* (RHEL = 18-8-5-12)
* The IPtables service is halted, but will start after reboot
* ''Root login is disallowed''! 

=== Apache ===

* Server banner is disabled.
* http://www.techrepublic.com/article/solutionbase-10-tips-for-securing-apache/159903

=== MySQL ===

* Remote access is disabled.  Root password is <code>aYkGMf+4L16f01v_y2AX</code>

== Tools ==

* [http://www.idontplaydarts.com/2011/02/hardening-and-securing-php-on-linux/ PHP Auditor]
* http://security.stackexchange.com/questions/9948/how-to-secure-a-dedicated-linux-server-running-a-lamp-stack-for-commercial-e-coms

== License ==

MIT. See <code>LICENSE</code>
